                                                                                                                 SEO ASSIGNMENT

Q1.What is SEO and explain the importance of SEO?
ans:- SEO stands for Search engine optimization. It is a set of rules for optimizing your website so that it can achieve higher rankings in search engine’s organic results. It’s the process to follow to increase the visibility of your website in search engines and get more traffic.
SEO has two main goals. The first is to help you understand what users are searching for online so that you can create high-quality content to satisfy their intent. The second is to help you create a website that search engines can find, index, and understand its content.
In addition, following good SEO practices is a great way to increase the quality of a website by making it user-friendly, faster, and easier to navigate.
           Importannc of SEO:
                            1) The majority of search engine users (more than 70%  – see graph below) are more likely to click on one of the top 5 suggestions in the search engine results pages (SERPS). To take advantage of this and gain visitors to your website or customers to your online store, your website needs to appear in one of the top positions.
                             2)SEO is not only about search engines but good SEO practices improve the user experience and usability of a website.
                             3)Users trust search engines and having a presence in the top positions for the keywords the user is searching, increases the website’s trust.
                             4)SEO is good for the social promotion of your website. People who find your website by searching Google or Bing are more likely to promote it on Facebook, Twitter, or other social media channels.
                            5)SEO is important for the smooth running of a big website. Websites with more than one author can benefit from SEO in a direct and indirect ways. Their direct benefit is an increase in organic traffic and their indirect benefit is having a common framework (checklists) to use before publishing content on the site.
                            6)SEO can put you ahead of the competition. If two websites are selling the same thing, the search engine optimized website is more likely to have more customers and make more sales.

Q3.What are the benefits of using meta tags? 
ans:- Meta tags are elements of HTML that are placed in the <head> section of your web page. They are not visible to the users, but they can be read by search engines and other web services. Meta tags can contain various types of information, such as the title, description, author, language, keywords, and more. Some meta tags are mandatory, while others are optional or specific to certain platforms.
                Benifits of META tags for SEO:-
                            Using meta tags for keywords can have several benefits for your SEO and user experience. Search engines can use your keywords as signals of your page's topic and content, helping them index and rank your page more accurately and relevantly. Additionally, users can see your keywords in the search results and decide if your page matches their intent and needs, making it easier and quicker for them to find your page. Furthermore, you can target your audience more effectively and increase your traffic and conversions by attracting more qualified and interested visitors who are looking for your keywords.

Q5.Define Favicon and give an illustrative example.
ans:- A favicon is a small, 16x16 pixel icon used on web browsers to represent a website or a web page. Short for “favorite icon,”’ favicons are commonly displayed on tabs at the top of a web browser,—but they’re also found on your browser’s bookmark bar, history and in search results, alongside the page url. 
                          Favicons appear in many places on the web.Most importantly, favicons appear next to a website in Google’s mobile search results, so a favicon can help your website stand out from the crowd in Google’s search results pages (only on mobile, though).
Second, favicons are prominent in open tabs at the top of web browsers next to web page titles. They typically appear on the left of the page title.
Moreover, favicons in browser tabs help users navigate quickly to the correct website when they have opened many tabs.
Next, you can see favicons in browser bookmarks bars. Browser favicons make it easy for users to return to the particular page 
Additionally, other places on the web where you will see favicons are:
                                                                                                                       Address bars
                                                                                                                      Toolbars
                                                                                                                   Browser history
                                                                                                                   Smartphone app/launcher icons (if the user saves your website to their app screen)

